Substantial overhaul of the tutorial page (#313)
JuliaPlots/PlotDocs.jl: docs/src/tutorial.md

savefig(p, "myplot.pdf") # Saves the plot from p as a .pdf vector graphic
```

## Plot Attributes

In the previous section we made plots... we're done, right? No! We need to style
our plots. In Plots.jl, the modifiers to plots are called **attributes**, which
are documented at the [attributes page](@ref attributes). Plots.jl follows two 
simple rules with data and attributes: 

* Positional arguments correspond to input data
* Keyword arguments correspond to attributes

So something like `plot(x, y, z)` is three-dimensional data for 3D plots with no
attributes, while `plot(x, y, attribute=value)` is two-dimensional data with 
one attribute assigned to some value.

As an example, we can change the line width using `linewidth` (or its alias `lw`), 
change the legend's labels using `label`, and add a title with `title`. Notice how
`["sin(x)" "cos(x)"]` has the same number of columns as the data.
Additionally, since the line width is being attributed to `[y1 y2]`, both lines 
will be affected by the assigned value. Let's apply all of this to our previous 
plot:

```@example tutorial
x = range(0, 10, length=100)
y1 = sin.(x)
y2 = cos.(x)

> plot(x, [y1 y2], title="Trig functions", label=["sin(x)" "cos(x)"], linewidth=3)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
plot(x, [y1 y2], title="Trigonometric functions", label=["sin(x)" "cos(x)"], linewidth=3)
```

I missed this one.

of the plot object that wants to be modified.

Let's use keywords and modifier functions interchangeably to perform some 
common modifications to our example, listed below. You'll notice that for the 
attributes `ls` and `legend`, a colon `:` is inserted before the name. 
The colon denotes a symbol in Julia. They are commonly used for values of 
attributes in Plots.jl, along with strings and numbers. Another thing to note
is that `y3` is being plotted as a dotted line. This is distinct from a
scatter plot of the data.

* Labels for the individual lines, seen in the legend
* Line widths (we'll use the alias `lw` instead of `linewidth`)
* Line styles (we'll use the alias `ls` instead of `linestyle`)
* Legend position (outside the plot, as the default would clutter the plot)
* Legend columns (3, to better use the horizontal space)
* X-limits to go from `0` to `2pi`
* Plot title and axis labels

```@example tutorial
x = range(0, 10, length=100)
y1 = sin.(x)
y2 = cos.(x)
y3 = @. sin(x)^2 - 1/2

plot(x, [y1 y2], label=["sin(x)" "cos(x)"], lw=[2 1])
plot!(x, y3, label="sin(x)^2 - 1/2", lw=3, ls=:dot)
plot!(legend=:outerbottom, legendcolumns=3)
xlims!(0, 2pi)

> title!("Trig functions") 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title!("Trigonometric functions") 
```

This is a guide for getting you up and running with Plots.jl. Its main goal is
to introduce you to the terminology used in the package, how to use Plots.jl in
common use cases, and put you in a position to easily understand the rest of
the manual.
the manual. We recommend you follow along the code examples inside the REPL
or an interactive notebook.

## Basic Plotting: Line Plots

The most basic plots are line plots. Assuming you have installed Plots.jl via

> `Pkg.add("Plots")`, you can plot a line by calling `plot` on two vectors of

Reviewer: Is there another place in the manual where we have installation instruction ?

Author: Yes, however it can't hurt to mention it again, especially since the first sentence on the home page is "to get started, see the tutorial."

```@example tutorial
using Plots
```

> To start, let's plot some trig functions. For the `x` coordinates, we can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start, let's plot some trigonometric functions. For the `x` coordinates, we can
```

```@example tutorial
x = range(0, 10, length=100)
y1 = sin.(x)
y2 = cos.(x)
plot(x, [y1 y2])
```

Additionally, we can add more lines by mutating the plot object. This is done
by the `plot!` command, where the `!` denotes that the command is modifying
the current plot.
You'll notice that we also use an `@.` macro. This is a convenience macro
that inserts dots for every function call to the right of the macro, ensuring 
that the entire expression is to be evaluated in an element-wise manner. 
If we inputted the dots manually, we would need three of them for the sine, 
exponent, and subtraction, and the resulting code would be less readable.

```@example tutorial
y3 = @. sin(x)^2 - 1/2   # equivalent to y3 = sin.(x).^2 .- 1/2
plot!(x, y3)
```

Note that we could have done the same as above using an explicit plot variable,
which we call `p`:

```@example tutorial
x = range(0, 10, length=100)
y1 = sin.(x)
y2 = cos.(x)
p = plot(x, [y1 y2])

y3 = @. sin(x)^2 - 1/2
plot!(p, x, y3)
```

In cases where the plot variable is omitted, Plots.jl uses the global
`Plots.CURRENT_PLOT` automatically.

### Saving Figures

> Saving plots is done by the `savefig` command. For example:

Reviewer: Worth mentioning `Plots.png`, `Plots.pdf`, ... ?

Author: Done.

attributes just the same as the `plot` command, and have a mutating form which
ends in `!`. For example, we can instead write the last line as:

```julia
scatter!(x, y_noisy, label="data")
```

The series types which are available are dependent on the backend, and are
documented on the [Supported Attributes page](@ref supported). As we will describe
later, other libraries can add new series types using **recipes**.

Scatter plots will have some common attributes related to the markers. Here
is an example of the same plot, but with some attributes fleshed out to make
the plot more presentable. Many aliases are used for brevity, and the list
below is by no means exhaustive.

* `lc` for `linecolor`
* `lw` for `linewidth`
* `mc` for `markercolor`
* `ms` for `markersize`
* `ma` for `markeralpha`

```@example tutorial
x = range(0, 10, length=100)
y = sin.(x)
y_noisy = @. sin(x) + 0.1*randn()

plot(x, y, label="sin(x)", lc=:black, lw=2)
scatter!(x, y_noisy, label="data", mc=:red, ms=2, ma=0.5)
plot!(legend=:bottomleft)
title!("Sine with noise")
xlabel!("x")
ylabel!("y")
```

## [Plotting Backends](@id plotting-backends)

> Here's a secret: Plots.jl isn't actually a plotting package! Plots.jl is a
> plotting metapackage: it's an interface over many different plotting libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plots.jl is a plotting metapackage: it's an interface over many different plotting libraries.
```

plot(x, y, label="sin(x)", lc=:black, lw=2)
scatter!(x, y_noisy, label="data", mc=:red, ms=2, ma=0.5)
plot!(legend=:bottomleft)
title!("Sine with noise, plotted with Plotly")
xlabel!("x")
ylabel!("y")
```

```@example tutorial
gr()   # set the backend to GR

# this plots using GR
plot(x, y, label="sin(x)", lc=:black, lw=2)
scatter!(x, y_noisy, label="data", mc=:red, ms=2, ma=0.5)
plot!(legend=:bottomleft)
title!("Sine with noise, plotted with GR")
xlabel!("x")
ylabel!("y")
```

Each plotting backend has a very different feel. Some have interactivity, some
are faster and can deal with huge numbers of datapoints, and some can do
3D plots. Some backends like GR can save to vector graphics and PDFs, while 
others like Plotly can only save to PNGs. 

For more information on backends, see the [backends page](@ref backends). 
For examples of plots from the various backends, see the Examples section.

## Plotting in Scripts

At the start of the tutorial, we recommended following along the code examples 
in an interactive session for the following reason: try adding those same 
plotting commands to a script. Now call the script... and the plot doesn't 

> show up? This is because Julia in interactive use calls `display` on every 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
show up? This is because Julia in interactive use through the REPL calls `display` on every 
```

by the `plot!` command, where the `!` denotes that the command is modifying
the current plot.
You'll notice that we also use an `@.` macro. This is a convenience macro
that inserts dots for every function call to the right of the macro, ensuring 
that the entire expression is to be evaluated in an element-wise manner. 
If we inputted the dots manually, we would need three of them for the sine, 
exponent, and subtraction, and the resulting code would be less readable.

```@example tutorial
y3 = @. sin(x)^2 - 1/2   # equivalent to y3 = sin.(x).^2 .- 1/2
plot!(x, y3)
```

Note that we could have done the same as above using an explicit plot variable,
which we call `p`:

```@example tutorial
x = range(0, 10, length=100)
y1 = sin.(x)
y2 = cos.(x)
p = plot(x, [y1 y2])

y3 = @. sin(x)^2 - 1/2
plot!(p, x, y3)
```

In cases where the plot variable is omitted, Plots.jl uses the global
`Plots.CURRENT_PLOT` automatically.

### Saving Figures

Saving plots is done by the `savefig` command. For example:

```julia
savefig("myplot.png")      # saves the CURRENT_PLOT as a .png
savefig(p, "myplot.pdf")   # saves the plot from p as a .pdf vector graphic
```

> There also exist convenience functions `png` and `pdf`. With these, the extension 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There also exist convenience functions `png`, `Plots.pdf` and other unexported helpers. With these, the extension 
```

to introduce you to the terminology used in the package, how to use Plots.jl in
common use cases, and put you in a position to easily understand the rest of
the manual. We recommend you follow along the code examples inside the REPL
or an interactive notebook.

## Basic Plotting: Line Plots

After you have installed Plots.jl, the first step is to initialize the package.
Depending on your computer, this will take a few seconds:

```@example tutorial
using Plots
```

To start, let's plot some trigonometric functions. For the `x` coordinates, we can
create a range from 0 to 10 of, say, 100 elements. For the `y` coordinates, we 
can create a vector by evaluating `sin(x)` in an element-wise fashion. To do this 
in Julia, we insert a dot right after the function call. Finally, we use `plot()`
to plot the line.

```@example tutorial
x = range(0, 10, length=100)
y = sin.(x)
plot(x, y)
```

The plot is displayed in a plot pane, a stand-alone window or the browser,
depending on the environment and backend (see [below](@ref plotting-backends)).

If this is your first plot of the session and it takes a while to show up,

> this is normal; this latency is called the "time to first plot" problem, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this is normal; this latency is called the "time to first plot" problem (or `TTFP`), 
```

This is a guide for getting you up and running with Plots.jl. Its main goal is
to introduce you to the terminology used in the package, how to use Plots.jl in
common use cases, and put you in a position to easily understand the rest of

> the manual. We recommend you follow along the code examples inside the REPL

Author: Ok, in this case it should read "It is recommended that the code examples be followed inside the REPL..."

that the entire expression is to be evaluated in an element-wise manner. 
If we inputted the dots manually, we would need three of them for the sine, 
exponent, and subtraction, and the resulting code would be less readable.

```@example tutorial
y3 = @. sin(x)^2 - 1/2   # equivalent to y3 = sin.(x).^2 .- 1/2
plot!(x, y3)
```

Note that we could have done the same as above using an explicit plot variable,
which we call `p`:

```@example tutorial
x = range(0, 10, length=100)
y1 = sin.(x)
y2 = cos.(x)
p = plot(x, [y1 y2])

y3 = @. sin(x)^2 - 1/2
plot!(p, x, y3)
```

In cases where the plot variable is omitted, Plots.jl uses the global
`Plots.CURRENT_PLOT` automatically.

### Saving Figures

Saving plots is done by the `savefig` command. For example:

```julia
savefig("myplot.png")      # saves the CURRENT_PLOT as a .png
savefig(p, "myplot.pdf")   # saves the plot from p as a .pdf vector graphic
```

There also exist convenience functions `png`, `Plots.pdf` and other 
unexported helpers. With these, the extension is omitted from the filename. 
The following is equivalent to the above code:

```julia
png("myplot")

> Plots.pdf(p, "myplot")

Author: Done

are documented at the [attributes page](@ref attributes). Plots.jl follows two 
simple rules with data and attributes: 

* Positional arguments correspond to input data
* Keyword arguments correspond to attributes

So something like `plot(x, y, z)` is three-dimensional data for 3D plots with no
attributes, while `plot(x, y, attribute=value)` is two-dimensional data with 
one attribute assigned to some value.

As an example, we can change the line width using `linewidth` (or its alias `lw`), 
change the legend's labels using `label`, and add a title with `title`. Notice how
`["sin(x)" "cos(x)"]` has the same number of columns as the data.
Additionally, since the line width is being attributed to `[y1 y2]`, both lines 
will be affected by the assigned value. Let's apply all of this to our previous 
plot:

```@example tutorial
x = range(0, 10, length=100)
y1 = sin.(x)
y2 = cos.(x)
plot(x, [y1 y2], title="Trigonometric functions", label=["sin(x)" "cos(x)"], linewidth=3)
```

Every attribute can also be applied by mutating the plot with a
modifier function. Some attributes have their own dedicated modifier functions,
while others can be accessed through `plot!(attribute=value)`.

> For example, the `xlabel` attribute adds a label for the 

Author: `xlabel` refers to the attribute in this sentence, not the helper function

* Legend position (outside the plot, as the default would clutter the plot)
* Legend columns (3, to better use the horizontal space)
* X-limits to go from `0` to `2pi`
* Plot title and axis labels

```@example tutorial
x = range(0, 10, length=100)
y1 = sin.(x)
y2 = cos.(x)
y3 = @. sin(x)^2 - 1/2

plot(x, [y1 y2], label=["sin(x)" "cos(x)"], lw=[2 1])
plot!(x, y3, label="sin(x)^2 - 1/2", lw=3, ls=:dot)
plot!(legend=:outerbottom, legendcolumns=3)
xlims!(0, 2pi)
title!("Trigonometric functions") 
xlabel!("x")
ylabel!("y")
```

Note that `y3` is being plotted as a dotted line. This is distinct from a
scatter plot of the data.

### Logarithmic Scale Plots

Sometimes data needs to be plotted across orders of magnitude. The attributes
`xscale` and `yscale` can be set to `:log10` in this case. They can also be
set to `:identity` to keep them linear-scale.
Care should be taken to ensure that the data and limits are positive. 

```@example tutorial
x = 10 .^ range(0, 4, length=100)
y = @. 1/(1+x)

plot(x, y, label="1/(1+x)")
plot!(xscale=:log10, yscale=:log10, minorgrid=true)
xlims!(1e+0, 1e+4)
ylims!(1e-5, 1e+0)
title!("Log-log plot") 
xlabel!("x")
ylabel!("y")
```

> More information about attributes can be found in the Attributes section 

Author: Done

What Plots.jl is actually doing is interpreting your commands and then
generating the plots using another plotting library, called the **backend**. 
The nice thing about this is that you can use many different plotting libraries
all with the Plots.jl syntax, and we'll see in a little bit that Plots.jl 
adds new features to each of these libraries!

When we started plotting above, our plot used the default backend GR. 
However, let's say we want a different plotting backend which will plot into 
a nice GUI or into the plot pane of VS Code. To do this, we'll need a backend 
which is compatible with these features. Some common backends for this are 
PyPlot and Plotly. For example, to install PyPlot, simply type the command 
`Pkg.add("PyPlot")` into the REPL; to install Plotly, type
`Pkg.add("PlotlyJS")`.

We can specifically choose the backend we are plotting into by using the name 
of the backend in all lowercase as a function. Let's plot the example from 
above using Plotly and then GR:

```@example tutorial
plotlyjs()   # set the backend to Plotly

x = range(0, 10, length=100)
y = sin.(x)
y_noisy = @. sin(x) + 0.1*randn()

> # this plots into the web browser via Plotly

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# this plots into a standalone window via Plotly
```

command takes in a 2-tuple `layout=(N, M)` which builds an NxM grid of plots,
and it will automatically split a series to be in each plot. For example, if we 
type `layout=(3, 1)` on a plot with three series, then we will get three rows of 
plots, each with one series in it.

Let's define some functions and plot them in separate plots. Since there's only
one series in each plot, we'll also remove the legend in each of the plots 
using `legend=false`.

```@example tutorial
x = range(0, 10, length=100)
y1 = @. exp(-0.1x) * cos(4x)
y2 = @. exp(-0.3x) * cos(4x)
y3 = @. exp(-0.5x) * cos(4x)
plot(x, [y1 y2 y3], layout=(3, 1), legend=false)
```

We can also use layouts on plots of plot objects. For example, we can generate
four separate plots and make a single plot that combines them into a 2x2 grid.

```@example tutorial
x = range(0, 10, length=100)
y1 = @. exp(-0.1x) * cos(4x)
y2 = @. exp(-0.3x) * cos(4x)
y3 = @. exp(-0.1x)
y4 = @. exp(-0.3x)
y = [y1 y2 y3 y4]

p1 = plot(x, y)
p2 = plot(x, y, title="Title 2", lw=3)
p3 = scatter(x, y, ms=2, ma=0.5, xlabel="xlabel 3")
p4 = scatter(x, y, title="Title 4", ms=2, ma=0.2)
plot(p1, p2, p3, p4, layout=(2,2), legend=false)
```

> Notice that the attributes in the individual plots are applied to those

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note, that the attributes in the individual plots are applied to those
```

Author: If "note" is used, the comma should be removed

2. It adds a plot recipe for marginal histograms.
3. It adds a bunch of new statistical plot series.

> Besides recipes, StatsPlots.jl also provides a specialized macro from plotting 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Besides recipes, StatsPlots.jl also provides a specialized macro `@df` from plotting 
```

```@example tutorial
using Distributions
plot(Normal(3, 5), lw=3)
```

Type recipes are a very convenient way to plot a specialized type which
requires no more intervention!

### Using Plot Recipes

StatsPlots.jl adds the `marginhist` multiplot via a plot recipe. For our data,

> we'll pull in the famous `iris` dataset from RDatasets:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we will pull in the famous `iris` dataset from RDatasets:
```

I think using `we will` is appropriate for formal writing.
